# Developer Docs
---
# Installation:
  1. Clone the project down
  2. Run `npm install` in the project folder
  3. Run `npm install` in the `functions` folder
    
      You're ready to run! See NPM Scripts below for info on running locally.

---
---

# Important Scripts:
> *All of these scripts should be run from the top-level project directory unless otherwise stated.*

## Development:

### `npm run dev`
  Runs the React front-end and Firebase Functions back-end simultaneously and watches for changes.

  *Front-end (React): Port 3000* <br>
  *Back-end (Functions): Port 5000*

  > *Firebase emulators run on port 5000 by default, *but* if Hosting and Functions are run simultaneously (i.e. with `firebase serve`), then Hosting will run on 5000 and Functions will run on 5001.*

### `npm run build`
  Compiles the app for production to the `build` folder. <br>
  It bundles React AND Firebase in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

  ***After*** running `build` you can run:
  - `firebase deploy` to deploy the app to Firebase.
  - `firebase serve` to see a *simulated deployment* in the Hosting emulator on your local machine (see `firebase serve` below).

  ### `npm start`
  Only runs the React front-end. <br>
  *(Port 3000)*

  ### `npm run functions`
  Only runs the Firebase Functions back-end. <br>
  *(Port 5000)*

## Production:

### `firebase deploy --only functions`

  Deploys functions from the `functions` folder to Firebase.

### `firebase deploy`
> *Must run `npm run build` first.*

  Deploys the entire compiled application from the `build` folder to Firebase.

---
---
# File Structure:

- ***functions*** - contains Firebase Functions and npm dependencies for Functions. This folder is where our back-end lives and where it's served/deployed from.
  - /auth ?
  - /business ?
  - /influencer ?
  - ...
- ***public*** - generated by create-react-app. Holds static files for React. We won't be working in here much (if at all).
- ***src*** - this folder contains our front-end code.
  - /components - top-level components and component subfolders.
    - /pages - components that define an entire page/URL.
      - /Home
        - /Home.jsx
        - /Home.css
    - /Navbar
      - /Navbar.jsx
      - /Navbar.css
    - /Footer
      - /Footer.jsx
      - /Footer.css
  - /config - contains our Firebase configuration file for connecting the front-end to our Firebase project.
    - /firebaseConfig.js
  - /redux - contains our actions and reducers for Redux
    - /actions
    - /reducers
  - /lib or /util - folder for storing useful front-end functions
  - App.css - global styles
  - App.js - our React application
  - index.js - the entry point of our front-end. Initializes and connects React, Redux, middlewares, and Firebase services.
  - serviceWorker.js - *(optional)* for offline capability
- ***.gitignore*** - ignore files/folders that are auto-generated or unessential
- ***package.json*** - configuration for NPM
- ***.firebaserc*** - *(optional)* for connecting multiple Firebase projects in one application
- ***firebase.json*** - config file for Firebase services
- ***firestore.indexes.json*** - for defining Firestore indexes if needed
- ***firestore.rules*** - Firestore security rules
- ***storage.rules*** - Firebase Storage security rules
- ***MVP.md*** - contains "elevator pitch" and some barebones requirements/structure for our app
- ***README.md*** - contains info and guidance for developers

---
---